_pages/about.md, before:

---
layout: about
title: about
permalink: /
subtitle: 

profile:
  align: right
  image: prof_pic_color.jpeg
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
  more_info: >
     <p>Interested in glacier modelling, climate change science & sustainability<p/>
     <p>I like spending time in the mountains!<p/>

news: False # includes a list of news items
selected_papers: True # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
social: True # includes social icons at the bottom of the page
---
### About me

I am a PhD student at the [Department of Atmospheric and Cryospheric Sciences (ACINN)](https://www.uibk.ac.at/en/acinn/), Universität Innsbruck.  
For my PhD, I am working with the Open Global Glacier Model [OGGM](https://oggm.org/) on the topic of "Improving our understanding of future multi-century mountain glacier changes and runoff", supervised by [Fabien Maussion](https://fabienmaussion.info/) and [David Rounce](https://www.cmu.edu/cee/cryotartans/people/david-rounce.html). 

Explore my publications and preprints for a complete list of contributions. A selection is provided below.

### Education & previous research
I hold an [M.Sc. in Atmospheric Sciences](https://www.uibk.ac.at/en/programmes/ma-atmospheric-sciences) with a focus on Climate and Glaciology from the Universität Innsbruck, Austria. My Master's thesis topic was the [Response time sensitivity of glaciers using the open global glacier model: from idealised experiments to an estimate for alpine glaciers](https://resolver.obvsg.at/urn:nbn:at:at-ubi:1-59629), supervised by [Fabien Maussion](https://fabienmaussion.info/). During my Master's studies, I also worked as a student research assistant on the climatology of precipitation and moisture sources over an arid region in Northeast Greenland as part of the [Northeast Greenland Caves Project](https://northeastgreenlandcavesproject.com/), led by Gina Moseley, which resulted in a [publication (Schuster et al., 2021)](https://doi.org/10.5194/wcd-2-1-2021).  

Previously, I earned a B.Sc. in Physics at the Universität Konstanz, Germany, complemented by an internship at the Andøya Space Center in Norway, where I worked on my Bachelor thesis about simulating height-dependent solar UV irradiance in the mesopause region.

Commit message:

updated about and added paper

_pages/about.md, after:

---
layout: about
title: about
permalink: /
subtitle: 

profile:
  align: right
  image: prof_pic_color.jpeg
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
  more_info: >
     <p>Interested in glacier modelling, climate change science & sustainability<p/>
     <p>I like spending time in the mountains!<p/>

news: False # includes a list of news items
selected_papers: True # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
social: True # includes social icons at the bottom of the page
---
### About me

I am a PhD student at the [Department of Atmospheric and Cryospheric Sciences (ACINN)](https://www.uibk.ac.at/en/acinn/), Universität Innsbruck. For my PhD, I am working with the [Open Global Glacier Model (OGGM)](https://oggm.org/) on the topic of *"Improving our understanding of future multi-century mountain glacier changes and runoff"*, supervised by [Fabien Maussion](https://fabienmaussion.info/) and [David Rounce](https://www.cmu.edu/cee/cryotartans/people/david-rounce.html).  

During my PhD, I worked on both large-scale mountain glacier mass-balance model calibration and projection uncertainties, as well as on more public and policy-relevant multi-century glacier mass and runoff projections. A selection of my most important preprints and publications is provided below. A complete list of contributions is available under [publications and preprints](publications/). 

I am an active part of the [OGGM community](https://community.oggm.org/roles.html) and the Glacier Model Intercomparison Project Phase 3 ([GlacierMIP3](https://github.com/GlacierMIP/GlacierMIP3)), and I was part of an interdisciplinary project on climate change impact research ([PROVIDE EU H2020](https://www.provide-h2020.eu/) project). I like to engage in climate and glacier change communication projects. These include [workshops and excursions to glaciers](https://oggm.org/2021/10/04/erasmus-project-obergurgl/), glacier projection visualizations for reports (e.g. *State of the Cryosphere* [2023](https://iccinet.org/statecryo23/) and [2024](https://iccinet.org/statecryo24/) reports), and the ["Goodbye Glaciers"](https://goodbye-glaciers.info/) initiative — a hiking signpost project and website about future glacier loss, with a focus on Central Europe.  

I expect to defend my PhD by the end of March 2025 and am looking for a postdoc or other scientific position starting in autumn/winter 2025. It would be great to stay near mountains! I am also open to developing a small postdoc proposal that aligns with your research group and my research interests.  


### Education & previous research
I hold an [M.Sc. in Atmospheric Sciences](https://www.uibk.ac.at/en/programmes/ma-atmospheric-sciences) with a focus on Climate and Glaciology from the Universität Innsbruck, Austria. My Master's thesis topic was the [Response time sensitivity of glaciers using the open global glacier model: from idealised experiments to an estimate for alpine glaciers](https://resolver.obvsg.at/urn:nbn:at:at-ubi:1-59629), supervised by [Fabien Maussion](https://fabienmaussion.info/). During my Master's studies, I also worked as a student research assistant on the climatology of precipitation and moisture sources over an arid region in Northeast Greenland as part of the [Northeast Greenland Caves Project](https://northeastgreenlandcavesproject.com/), led by Gina Moseley, which resulted in a [publication (Schuster et al., 2021)](https://doi.org/10.5194/wcd-2-1-2021).  

Previously, I earned a B.Sc. in Physics at the Universität Konstanz, Germany, complemented by an internship at the Andøya Space Center in Norway, where I worked on my Bachelor thesis about simulating height-dependent solar UV irradiance in the mesopause region.
